# Complete Android Marshmallow tutorial
@ [Complete Web Developer](http://www.completewebdeveloper.com)

## Hello World lesson

### [Android Studio](http://developer.android.com/tools/studio/index.html)
requires jre, based on IntelliJ IDEA, and HAXM emulation (and to turn off Hyper-V)

Weclome splahs shows current/recent projects, and can start new project. And you can use github directly from this modal.

### New Project

Company domain should be inverse of the package name, and it should be a web address. I bought personalenrichment.xyz (for $1) so I would have no concerns with anyone looking up this data later.

The package name can be set differently from the one generated by the company name (but you dont need to do that).

These fields can be changed manually later in the project.

### Project templates

There are many acitivities to get your project going quickly. Black is good for a hello world app.

#### Blank activity structure

The 2 files likely to open automatically creating a new file are

* MainActivity.java
* activity_main.xml
* build.gradle

The code exercizes the XML to general the appearance of the app. Elements in that layout may be interactive.

There are several of these _gradle_ files, which direct build automation for Android Studio projects. The one inside the `src` folder defines details like project dependencies, package name for the application, and android OS target version.

There is a textview with the text "hello world" already in the blank activity. That text data is directly added as a property of the TextView in the XML.

### Project tree views

* Project - a tree view that emphasizes accessing data according to how the IDE prefers to work with it.
* Packages
* Android - a complete view of the project tree.

Default to the project view.

You can put raw media/data in an assets folder at the same depth in the project as `src` and `res` folders.  There is some suger in the libraries for this; `getAssets()`.

### [Resources](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/resources/providing-resources.html)

Java is under `/app/src/main/java`, and the xml is under `/app/src/main/res/layout`. Similarly, other resources including strings are defined under the res directory (in `values/strings.xml`).

In XML, you can traverse the res folder by `@KEYWORD/key`, like `@string/hello_world` in the blank activity. This points to a `hello_wolrd` entry in `/values/strings.xml`. In Java, similarly the [R object](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/R.html) can be traversed, where it is in this case `R.array.hello_world`. 

### Builing and running projects

1. Save all
2. Sync
3. Build
4. Run

To run the app you need to [set up an emulator](http://developer.android.com/tools/devices/index.html) or device to install to.

### Manifest file

The `AndroidManifest.xml` file (at the same level as the `res` folder) is autogenerated from your project, and lists:

* User Permissions: Internet, Camera, etc
* Activities, Sevices, Content Providers, etc
* target and minimum API level
* Hardware and Software pre-reqs (for example, Bluetooth)
* Package and app name
* contains a element `intent-filter` -> [action](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/action-element.html) and [category](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/category-element.html) 

#### Intent Filter entries
_see [Intents and Intent filters](http://developer.android.com/guide/components/intents-filters.html)_

The purpose of this specification is to allow action-URI launching from 3rd parties, much like `magnet://` links viewed on your browser can open a torrent manager on your PC.

The `action` specifies the specific relationship of each activity in the app to its' launch intent.
The `category` specifies a group to show the user when trying to open an intent.

### UI overview

All UI elements descent from either `View` or `ViewGroup` classes.

`Viewgroups` act as containers for views and viewgroups, which helps to layout the page.

#### Overview of Views and ViewGroups

* Linear Layout: vertical and horizontal
* Relative Layout
* Frame Layout
* List View
* Grid View
* Table Layout

### Control Sizing

Elements specificed in xml fragments have their layout specified as their heirarchical position in the Views and ViewGroup deliniation of space. Each Element can take a certain space within that layout position. These are specified with sizing controls which are attributes to the xml element being displayed:

* `layout_width`
* `layout_height`

The two main specifications are: 

* `wrap_content` - shrink element to inherent sizing of content
* `match_parent` - expand element to sizing of parent